We are talking about segmentation variables.
Usually what is done is that
they are grouped in four, for
example, in four blocks and in
those groups you lose a lot.
We have done it to try to identify
all or almost all of the most
important ones, we leave
you the listing and you have to
go assimilating them and from
now on every time you study
or think or analyze a market
or a company or whatever
you have to incorporate
this and it will help you
see things clearer.
On the one hand, we study
the customers themselves,
regardless of our proposal
and in the second block it
is related to our proposal,
what they look for in
us, how they see us, etc.
Let's start with the customer itself.
of geographical variables.
Well, because segments depending on where
they live, very easy.
Demographic variables are.
For in this case, they are typical
of age, sex, religion, I know
the studies, the profession,
things like that.
The firmographic variables
are demographic for companies.
The firm is a company.
You don't study religion or
gender in a company, you
study the size of the company,
the activity, the number of employees,
the turnover, and
so on.
Psychological variables are.
This is the profile and this was very
fashionable We identified profiles.
Imagine, urban, pijo, I know, adventurer,
traveler, things like that, that
gives us certain information.
I will give you some examples, well.
Psychological variables are.
We made a project years ago with a
pharmaceutical laboratory that what
one of its distribution channels
was pharmacies, the pharmacy offices
that is called and I think we segmented
10,000 pharmacies and segmented
them in function, we made a segmentation
among other psychographic
and what we segmented was
in terms of the profile, the profile
of the pharmacist or the businessman,
in terms of being more businessman,
more innovative, because
with desires to do different
things, etc., or that it
was more traditional,
more conservative,
less businessman.
In the sector the segments that
were or were made were more firmographic
or demographic, size, square
meters, proximity to a medical
center, things like that.
This is what we did, we want to
understand who the people who are
running those pharmacies are.
And why?
Because that psychographic segmentation
allowed that laboratory to adapt the
proposal, which is the only important
thing, to the one who was more entrepreneurial,
innovative, etc., because
they offered a series of services
and those services connected
with them, but did not connect
with the most conservative.
Another variable related to the
profile is latitudinal.
What do your customers or your target
market think about specific things?
How do you react to concrete things?
What opinion do you have?
This is not understandable, but I will
give you an example of Power MBA.
We one day realized that we told
the proposal to two people who
from the perspectives above,
from all the others were equal,
the same age, live in the
same place, the same profession,
the same studies, the same
profile, apparently all
the same, all four above equal.
And this person fell in love with
our proposal and the other person
was shaking him and we said, But
what are we losing?
What is missing here?
It was a purely behavioral issue.
We understand that there are people,
among you, among the Power Marketers,
among the Power MBAs, well, all the
Power Marketers or the Power MBAs are
so, that they have an attitude towards
learning, and it is that learning
and knowledge consider them
to serve for something, but the
rest of the world, which is the vast
majority, do not believe that
learning serves you for nothing.
But they do not learn from the
things they do, because
they don't believe it so.
Look, it is a purely attitude
topic, but in this case it gives
us a lot of information,
because we had to address
only people who believe that
learning serves something.
And understanding this helped
us evolve a lot of copies, messages,
ads and so on.
There are ads that connect
with people based on the attitude
they have.
So consider this variable, which
is the attitude.
In some cases it makes sense and in
others not.
Now let's go with the variables
that are related to your
proposal, what they look for in
you, how they are as customers, etc.
It is no longer the client,
but the customer
with you.
The first one, which I put
above all, is the benefits.
and benefits.
For what purpose, or for what purpose.
Do it, always
Segment your customers and target
audience according to that.
This is what the most valuable information
will bring you.
You get a lot more information, knowing
your thousands of customers.
If there are segments that buy you
with specific and different
goals, that is to know the age,
gender or things of those or profiles.
Why is?
The most important thing is
the profit you get from them.
And when you understand it, it
allows you to adapt a lot more.
I'll go back to the Power MBA.
Two years ago we were segmenting in
function, we were doing demographic segmentations.
The age, studies, junior or senior,
or for example your situation
as long as you worked for another
person, i.e. for another company,
account of others, or was an
entrepreneur, etc.
That is the demographic.
But we realized that segmentation,
the variable that brought us the
most valuable information, was not
that, it was the benefit.
Regardless of your current situation,
why did you buy us?
With what purpose?
What benefit did he want?
And what are they?
There are several, but get inspired
to update, get inspired to
start, to launch a new company.
Regardless of whether I had to work
in a large company, I would
have been the age I was.
Even though I was an entrepreneur, sometimes
what I wanted was to get inspired to create
something more innovative.
Others are updating.
Others, find a better job.
The benefits they are looking for.
And when we segment the audience according
to the benefits, we understand
a lot of things that allowed
us to improve our relationship
with them, make new campaigns,
etc.
You must always keep this
in mind.
Another way to see it is the problem.
Sometimes it is the same, have you seen
them from another perspective?
What are your problems or what
benefit do you seek?
It makes you more intuitive.
And for example, I'll think of,
I know, a personal trainer.
No, a coach
A coach or a psychologist, I know,
well, because you will have
clients who feel different problems.
That is a good segmentation.
Sometimes the problem determines
the benefit they are looking for in
you.
Another related, but that
is good to have in mind, is
that of everything you offer,
usually a value proposal
has as many components.
What are you most valuing?
Well, blablacar, for example, there
are users who value saving
money, others making money,
well.
In The Power Envie there are people
who value the cases, others
value the cross knowledge of the
entire program, of all areas,
the power marketers equally.
This is interesting.
Segment your current customers according
to everything I offer them,
which is what they are valuing.
It can give you many clues.
Use, this also helps to understand
many things.
We have to segment by use.
By use I do not mean the volume of
use, the amount of use, but how we
are used, how, for what they
use us.
I give you an example.
For the gym, there are people who go
to the gym, because at noon, as
we have seen before, because
they work around and others go at
night.
Or there are people who go to gain
muscle mass and others to gas.
Or there are people who go, for example,
a hairdressing chain, because
you have customers, you can
segment customers by use.
You are not even segmenting not the
customer, but because a customer
can, sometimes can use you,
because every three months he
will cut, every two months he
will cut his hair, or also, because
on Saturdays in the morning,
many customers go to events.
Introduce this variable of use, which
will give you many clues of many
things.
The relationship with us, you
can segment according to your current
or potential customers according
to the relationship you have with
them.
If they already know you, that is, in
the funnel they are very up, they
already know you, they don't know you,
they have already bought you, well, it'
s segmenting if you do actions adapted to
each of them.
Segmentation by behavior that
can be related and is based
on specific things they have
done.
I know if they have opened an email,
or if they have visited your website
or if they have bought you, etc.
You are adapting, right?
We are talking about current
customers.
Other very common segmentations
are the segmentations based on
the frequency, the importance
as a customer of what they
are buying you.
For example, in B2B companies, ABC
is very typical.
Your customers are the ones that
buy you the most, the most
important ones for you, the ones
that generate almost all the billing,
and you do what you do because you
assign them a Key Account Manager,
you focus on them, etc.
The B, because a little less, you
deal with distributors and the C
are those that buy you
sporadically, for example.
It is very common, I know, or an
application, because it always
has identified who are the
heavy users who use it most, etc.
This is the level of satisfaction.
You can segment up or down, because
those who are more faithful are happier,
etc., and they value you well
and those who have complained.
You can do a segmentation like that,
right?
Anyone who complains, we
will call you.
This is a segmentation and an adaptation,
in this case, of your value proposition
or your relationship
with them, right?
We call on everyone who complains.
The last one we have incorporated
is that segments depending on
whether they are looking
for a proposal like yours or
of the competition or not.
This will be seen in a class later,
because if you are able to
target those who are not looking
for it, well, you are expanding
the size of the market.
As you can see, there
are many analyses.
For each of the perspectives you
will come out a few segments and you
what you have to do is know
them all, try to apply them
to see if in your case, in your
company, in your project, whatever,
which have meaning.
Some will make sense and will provide
you with a lot of information and allow
you to adapt a lot and others in your
case, because they will not have.